---
title: On Fear
date: 2025-07-24
categories: Life Lessons, Personal Growth
tags:
  - "#Fear"
  - "#Resilience"
  - "#ImposterSyndrome"
  - "#Failure"
  - "#Self-reflection"
featured_image: "/assets/images/posts/20250724-OnFear.jpg/"
description: A reflection on how fear has shaped my choices, held me back from lifelong dreams, and what it means to finally take baby steps toward courage at 36.
permalink: /blog/2025-07-24-On-Fear/
---

I think I know the answer.

I think I get it now.

For years, I've been holding myself back. I've had opportunities of a lifetime come so close I could savor and drool for them.

I worked so hard and helped create those very same opportunities.

But when it came down to it... when it came down to firmly reaching out, grasping them as tight as I could, and then going all in... I couldn't do it.

Why not?

Why couldn't I actually follow through and commit to the very things I've dreamt about for as long as I could remember?

When I was growing up, I can't tell you how often people asked me what I wanted to be as an adult. Who didn't experience that? And unlike many whose career aspirations switched as they discovered different things along way - I always held steady. I knew without a doubt in my heart, I was going to grow up and become a Meteorologist.

Growing up on the southern edge of tornado alley in Texas, sitting outside in a lawn chair looking for funnel clouds on a stormy evening is a rite of passage. What someone may consider idle chit-chat about the weather was and always has been a fascinating conversation starter for me.

Yet, at 36 years old, I am not a Meteorologist. Really, I'm in the exact same situation I was in 30 years ago, as a young child, always gazing at the sky in awe. (Just with a wee bit more understanding - somewhat - of our atmosphere.)

Why? Why am I not doing what young Mia **knew in her whole heart** she would be doing?

It's quite simple really.

Fear.

In so many aspects of my life, fear has crept in and taken over for me.

I'm not positive when it started. Possibly in my first year in university. Likely way before then. Regardless, my (amazing) school did not have Meteorology as a degree program, but the closest option was to study Geophysics in the Geological Sciences school. 

Even though I was accepted without issue, I immediately began feeling imposter syndrome at the tender age of 18. 

All of a sudden, I went from being an above average student for over a decade to surrounded by actually thousands of 18-year-old geniuses.

In each class I attended, I felt like the dumbest person in the room. Was that true? In hindsight, I don't think so, but I'm still not sure, to be honest.

The hardest part was re-taking Calculus for a second semester in a row. I made every effort to attend each lecture, joined study groups, and even got direct tutoring from the TA during office hours. I worked so hard to pull up my initial D, and still only managed to squeak by with a C (and I still feel it's because the professor felt bad that I was still struggling despite all my efforts).

There were a couple of other classes where I just couldn't even grasp any of the concepts whatsoever, and I felt myself falling further and further behind. Mentally. Emotionally. My high school boyfriend and I had also broken up which I took as an opportunity to spiral even further.

Finally, I couldn't bear the idea of flunking out of my dream college, so I chose to withdraw. I managed to earn enough credits to be considered a junior, but the idea of actually graduating from there seemed to slip further and further away each day. 

I chose to give up on myself and rob myself of an amazing opportunity I worked so hard for.

After that, I spent the next decade or so trying to convince myself that I was happy in the work that I was doing. That in my own little way, I was making a difference. I found pockets of time to finally complete my Bachelor's degree about 9 years after my original estimated completion date, but that was still one of my proudest moments to date. (Even though the final class had me second guessing whether or not a degree would ever be in my future or not.)

Even with me trying to find myself that whole time, I never allowed myself to discover my true passions. I never allowed myself the pleasure of seeing what actually made me happy. For years, I've been doing what I've thought everyone expects me to do. What society expects. What family expects. Friends. God.

I've checked some things off the list. Get married. Check. Get divorced. Check. Buy a house. Check. Get married again. Check.

I've been super blessed and privileged to have what I have considering the opportunities I've let slip away. 

But mostly: I've been afraid.

I've been afraid to fuck up. To say the wrong thing. To make someone mad. To fail.

But then I get so incredibly frustrated with myself. Because how can we become better versions of ourselves *without* failing? Without fucking up? Without making mistakes?

We can't. We're human. I'm human. None of us are perfect.

Writing this, for me, is a baby step in overcoming fear. All of my fears. The big ones. The baby ones. All the ones in between.

It's impossible to conquer fear when you're laying in the fetal position under the blankets.

I don't know where I'll be in five years or ten or if we'll even be here as a society.

What I do know is, I am taking a step today to not allow myself to not be perfect. I'm writing this to show it's okay to be where I am today, and that sometimes, the biggest win is finally facing Fear at the tender age of 36.

The only thing worse than failing is never trying.

And dammit, I'm trying.

What has fear stolen from you?

🖤